PLANT CARE SYSTEM:

In this project, i have used soil moisture and temperature sensors to monitor plant environment. If moisture is less than a certain value or temperature is more than a certain value, it reminds to water the plant by an LCD display.

The main challenge for me in this project was to convert sensors' reading into human interpretable reading especially in the case of temperature sensor. It wasn't working by simple line equation, it had some other concept of reading because each time there will be different voltage, different reading But i learnt many things from this. And the other challenge was to make the LCD work. After spending plenty of time and hit and trial, i got to know that one have change only the "Type".

The idea for this project came from an Instagram reel of science fair at some university (most probably UCLA, i don't remember correctly).


SMART HOME:

In this project, i have used PIR and temperature sensors to detect motion and measure temperature respectively to light up bulb when any motion detected and open the window using servo when temperature rises after certain point. We have to use <Servo.h> library for this project.

The idea for this project had come a very long ago.


TRAFFIC TIME MANAGER:

In this project, i have used photoresistor and IR sensors to measure light intensity and number of vehicles in traffic. So that, we can calculate the red light time based on day/nighttime and vehicles density. It increases red light time if light intensity is less than a certain value and/or number of vehicles is more.

Although this project is not working fine because i am not able to control IR sensor. I have tried many ways like connecting in with slideswitch, DPST switch, changing it to PIR sensor But still not able to figure out.

The idea for this project came when i was trying to learn ML and had to make some project.


POSTURE ALERT SYSTEM:

In this project, i have used force and tilt sensor to detect if someone is sitting on chair and is there posture is correct or not. It alert you by a piezo buzzer if detects a tilt. 

In this, the force value is not human interpretable, it's just sensor's reading but it's working fine. It's not perfect but it does gets the job done. 

The idea for this project came from i was surfing the web.